Overtrading is defined as trading in larger sizes than would be optimal.
If the expected size of a mispricing or an arbitrage is 10 basis points,
then no model should trade in such a way as to have 15 basis points of market impact,
as this cannot be sustainably profitable.
In extreme cases, overtrading can completely kill an entire strategy.
A telltale sign, is that if a strategy coincidentally stops
working as soon as it is turned on in real markets at noticeable size,
then it is most likely overtrading.
Further evidence, would be if the backtest appears to
begin working again when the live model is turned off.
Given that trading is costly and all trades have an impact on the market,
overfitting can lead to overtrading.
If the modeler has overfit,
then the models predicted Alpha will often be
larger than the true Alpha which exists in the world.
In a world where trading is costly and market frictions of all kinds abound,
unless you can be extremely certain that an advanced statistical method is not overfit,
you may indeed achieve better true out-of-sample performance by applying
the Occam's razor principle and employing a model which has relatively few parameters.